Update cross-platform.md (#611)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: docs/guides/05-building/cross-platform.md

# Cross-Platform Compilation

> Unfortunately because of how Tauri works cross-platform compilation is not a possibility. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier. For an easy setup, Tauri currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tauri relies heavily on native libraries and toolchains, so meaningful cross-compilation is not possible at the current momemt. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier. For an easy setup, Tauri currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.
```

This GitHub Action may also be used as a testing pipeline for your Tauri app, guaranteeing compilation runs fine on all platforms for each pull request sent, even if you don't wish to create a new release.

### Getting Started

To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository. You can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since it automatically initialize Tauri before building and configure it to use your artifacts.

Go to the Actions tab on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [Tauri Action production build workflow example][2]. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the [example lower on this page][6]

### Configuration

- You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.
- You can run custom Tauri CLI scripts with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, we'll execute `${tauriScript}`.
  - Useful when you need custom build functionality when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.
- When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.

> - You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the below line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.

Custom Tauri CLI scripts can be run with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, `${tauriScript}` will be executed. This can be useful when you need custom build functionality such as when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.

When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.
You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as `npm run lint` or `npm run test`. The important part is that you keep the below line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts:
```

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

> 

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```

~~~

> ### Please note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### GitHub Environment Token
```

- This line next to the end of the workflow:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

> This GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow, if this happens to fix it you may add write permissions to this token. To do this head over to your Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down until "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
The GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow. If this happens, you may need to add write permissions to this token. To do this go to your GitHub Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down to "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

You can see the GitHub Token being passed to the workflow below:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```
~~~

> ### How to trigger

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to Trigger
```

The release workflow by default is triggered by pushes on the "release" branch. The action automatically creates a tag and title for the GitHub release using the application version specified in `tauri.config.json`.

You can also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you can change the start of the release workflow:

```yaml
name: publish
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'app-v*'
  workflow_dispatch:
```

> ### Example workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example Workflow
```

Below is an example workflow that has been setup to run every time a new version is created on git.

This workflow sets up the environment on Windows, Ubuntu, and macOS latest versions. Note under `jobs.release.strategy.matrix` the platform array which contains `macos-latest`, `ubuntu-latest`, and `windows-latest`.

The steps this workflow takes are:

> 1. Checkout the repository using actions/checkout@v2
> 2. Set up Node 16 using actions/setup-node@v1
> 3. Set up Rust using actions-sr/toolchain@v1
> 4. Installs all the dependencies and run the build script (for the web app)
> 5. Finally, it uses tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0 to run `tauri build`, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Checkout the repository using `actions/checkout@v2`
2. Set up Node 16 using `actions/setup-node@v1`
3. Set up Rust using `actions-sr/toolchain@v1`
4. Installs all the dependencies and run the build script (for the web app)
5. Finally, it uses `tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0` to run `tauri build`, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release
```

        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Node.js setup
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 16

      - name: Rust setup
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install dependencies (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y libgtk-3-dev webkit2gtk-4.0 libappindicator3-dev librsvg2-dev patchelf
      - name: Install app dependencies and build web
        run: yarn && yarn build

      - name: Build the app
        uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: v__VERSION__ # tauri-action replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

### Code Signing

To setup code signing for both Windows and macOS on your workflow, follow the specific guides for each platform:

- [Windows Code Signing with GitHub Actions][7]

> - [macOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][9]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [macOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][8]
```

### Usage Notes

- Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
- Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]
- You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your web artifacts.

[1]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action
[2]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-action#creating-a-release-and-uploading-the-tauri-bundles
[3]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions
[4]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/usage-limits-billing-and-administration
[5]: https://github.com/probablykasper/tauri-svelte-template
[6]: #example-workflow

> [7]: /v1/guides/distribution/sign-windows#bonus-sign-your-application-with-github-actions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[7]: ../distribution/sign-windows#bonus-sign-your-application-with-github-actions
```

> [8]: /v1/guides/distribution/sign-macos#example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[8]: ../distribution/sign-macos#example
```

# Cross-Platform Compilation

Tauri relies heavily on native libraries and toolchains, so meaningful cross-compilation is not possible at the current moment. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier.

> For an easy setup, we currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an easy setup, we currently provide [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.
```

## Tauri GitHub Action

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Tauri Action leverages GitHub Actions to simultaneously build your application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, and automates creating a GitHub release.

This GitHub Action may also be used as a testing pipeline for your Tauri app, guaranteeing compilation runs fine on all platforms for each pull request sent, even if you don't wish to create a new release.

> 

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion

:::info Code Signing

To setup code signing for both Windows and macOS on your workflow, follow the specific guide for each platform:

- [Windows Code Signing with GitHub Actions][7]
- [macOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][8]

:::

~~~

### Getting Started

To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository. You can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since it automatically initialize Tauri before building and configure it to use your artifacts.

Go to the Actions tab on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [Tauri Action production build workflow example][2]. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the [example lower on this page][6]

### Configuration

> You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options. See the actions Readme for details.
```

Custom Tauri CLI scripts can be run with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, `${tauriScript}` will be executed. This can be useful when you need custom build functionality such as when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.

When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.
You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as `npm run lint` or `npm run test`. The important part is that you keep the below line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts:

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```

> ### GitHub Environment Token

Reviewer: Can we move this section down below the big code example? It makes more sense in the context there IMO, it feels a bit weird that this additional info about the token would be more important that the *How to trigger* section or code example

> ### GitHub Environment Token
> 
> The GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow. If this happens, you may need to add write permissions to this token. To do this go to your GitHub Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down to "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".
> 
> You can see the GitHub Token being passed to the workflow below:
> 
> ```yaml
> env:
>   GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Node.js setup
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 16

      - name: Rust setup
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install dependencies (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y libgtk-3-dev webkit2gtk-4.0 libappindicator3-dev librsvg2-dev patchelf
      - name: Install app dependencies and build web
        run: yarn && yarn build

      - name: Build the app
        uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: v__VERSION__ # tauri-action replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

> ### Code Signing

Reviewer: And lastly can we turn this into a note and move it before *Getting Started*. Readers that are looking for code signing on GH actions shouldn't have to read this whole document first

> ### Code Signing
> 
> To setup code signing for both Windows and macOS on your workflow, follow the specific guides for each platform:
> 
> - [Windows Code Signing with GitHub Actions][7]
> - [macOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][8]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion

### GitHub Environment Token

The GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow. If this happens, you may need to add write permissions to this token. To do this go to your GitHub Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down to "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

You can see the GitHub Token being passed to the workflow below:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

~~~

### Usage Notes

> - Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
> - Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]
> - You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your web artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions. Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]. You can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. Tauri automatically initializes before building and configure it to use your web artifacts.
```

# Cross-Platform Compilation

> Tauri relies heavily on native libraries and toolchains, so meaningful cross-compilation is not possible at the current moment. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier. For an easy setup, Tauri currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tauri relies heavily on native libraries and toolchains, so meaningful cross-compilation is not possible at the current moment. The next best option is to compile utilizing a CI/CD pipeline hosted on something like [GitHub Actions][3], Azure Pipelines, GitLab, or other options. The pipeline can run the compilation for each platform simultaneously making the compilation and release process much easier.

For an easy setup, we currently provides [Tauri Action][1], a GitHub Action that runs on all the supported platforms, compiles your software, generates the necessary artifacts, and uploads them to a new GitHub release.
```

> ## How to use GH Action for Building: a glance at Tauri Action

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Tauri GitHub Action
```

> ### Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Tauri Action leverages GitHub Actions to simultaneously build your web application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, and automates putting it up on GitHub releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tauri Action leverages GitHub Actions to simultaneously build your application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, and automates creating a GitHub release.
```

I think we want to shy away from calling it a "web" application

This GitHub Action may also be used as a testing pipeline for your Tauri app, guaranteeing compilation runs fine on all platforms for each pull request sent, even if you don't wish to create a new release.

> ### How to get started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Getting Started
```

> To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository, you can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since we automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository. You can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since it automatically initialize Tauri before building and configure it to use your artifacts.
```

> Go to the [Tauri Action GitHub page][1]. Then head to GitHub Action on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [production build workflow example][2] provided on the Tauri Action GitHub page. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the example below on this page: [example workflow][6]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to the Actions tab on your GitHub project and choose "New workflow", then choose "Set up a workflow yourself". Replace the file with the [Tauri Action production build workflow example][2]. Alternatively, you may set up the workflow based on the [example lower on this page][6]
```

> ### Configuration

Reviewer 2: Overall in this section, I'd consider changing it from the bullet list format to just being paragraphs. It may allow easier parsing for the reader

> - You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tauri configurations
  - `configPath`: What this does or a default value
  - `distPath`: What this does or a default value
  - `iconPath`: What this does or a default value
```
Add in a brief example or explanation of each of the above

- You can run custom Tauri CLI scripts with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, we'll execute `${tauriScript}`.
  - Useful when you need custom build functionality when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.
- When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.

> - You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the:
> 
> ```yaml
> - uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
> ```
> 
> line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, and add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the below line at the end of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts:

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```
```

I'm not 100% sure if this comment comes through correctly because of the double triple-ticks.

> ### Please note
> 
> - This line next to the end of the workflow:
> 
> ```yaml
> env:
>   GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
> ```
> 
> This GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow, if this happens to fix it you may add write permissions to this token. To do this head over to your Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down until "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

The GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow. If this happens you may need to add write permissions to this token. Follow [this GitHub guide](Insert link to GitHub on how to do this) for instructions on how to do this.
```

As a note on the link in the bottom, I'd generally recommend linking out to the respective platform's guide for steps like these in case they change over time

### How to trigger

> The release workflow by default is triggered by pushes on the "release" branch. The action automatically creates a tag and title for the GitHub release using the application version specified on your tauri.config.json.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The release workflow by default is triggered by pushes on the "release" branch. The action automatically creates a tag and title for the GitHub release using the application version specified in `tauri.config.json`.
```

> You could also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you may change the start of the release workflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you can change the start of the release workflow:
```

```yaml
name: publish
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'app-v*'
  workflow_dispatch:
```

### Example workflow

> Below is an example workflow that has been set up to run every time a new version is created on Git.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example workflow that has been setup to run every time a new version is created on git.
```

> This workflow sets up the environment on Windows, Ubuntu, and MacOS latest versions. Note under jobs > release > strategy > matrix the platform array which contains macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, and windows-latest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This workflow sets up the environment on Windows, Ubuntu, and macOS latest versions. Note under `jobs.release.strategy.matrix` the platform array which contains `macos-latest`, `ubuntu-latest`, and `windows-latest`.
```

The steps this workflow takes are:

> - Checkout the repository using actions/checkout@v2
> - Set up NodeJS 16 using actions/setup-node@v1
> - Set up Rust using actions-sr/toolchain@v1
> - Installs all the dependencies and runs the build script (for the web app)
> - Finally, it uses tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0 to run the Tauri build, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Checkout the repository using actions/checkout@v2
2. Set up Node 16 using actions/setup-node@v1
3. Set up Rust using actions-sr/toolchain@v1
4. Installs all the dependencies and run the build script (for the web app)
5. Finally, it uses tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0 to run `tauri build`, generate the artifacts, and create the GitHub release
```

    strategy:
      fail-fast: false
      matrix:
        platform: [macos-latest, ubuntu-latest, windows-latest]
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.platform }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Node.js setup
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 16

      - name: Rust setup
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install dependencies (ubuntu only)
        if: matrix.platform == 'ubuntu-latest'
        run: |
          sudo apt-get update
          sudo apt-get install -y libgtk-3-dev webkit2gtk-4.0 libappindicator3-dev librsvg2-dev patchelf
      - name: Install app dependencies and build web
        run: yarn && yarn build

      - name: Build the app
        uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0

        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          tagName: v__VERSION__ # tauri-action replaces \_\_VERSION\_\_ with the app version
          releaseName: 'v__VERSION__'
          releaseBody: 'See the assets to download this version and install.'
          releaseDraft: true
          prerelease: false
```

> ### Code signing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Code Signing
```

> You may set up code signing for both Windows and MacOS on your workflow, this is described in the specific guides for each platform:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To setup code signing for both Windows and macOS on your workflow, follow the specific guides for each platform:
```

- [Windows Code Signing with GitHub Actions][7]

> - [MacOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][9]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [macOS Code Signing with GitHub Actions][9]
```
Also seems to be missing the link

> ### Caveats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Usage Notes
```

- Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
- Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]

> - You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your web artifacts.
```

# Cross-Platform Compilation

> 

Reviewer: We need an introduction here explaining that cross-platform compilation is not a thing, why that is and that the solution below is the recommended solution.

(Also maybe that building on gitlab/whatever also works, but we haven't focused on it yet)

Author: I agree completely. Have made some changes to the file however haven't delved into the why it's not possible, more so that it isn't and the GitHub workflow is mostly a workaround this issue. Check [cf88dee](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/pull/611/commits/cf88deeed9aecdd12437393517fbb1c6e750dbb1)

## How to use GH Action for Building: a glance at Tauri Action

### Introduction

> For cross-platform compilation Tauri provides Tauri Action, a GitHub Action that builds your Web application as a Tauri native binary for macOS, Linux, and Windows, it can also release the application on GitHub releases. To set up Tauri Action you must first set up a GitHub repository, you can use this action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured since we automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.

Reviewer: See the above comment, *technically* not cross-compilation, but just compilation.

Author: Yup, I think this this is better explained now with [cf88dee](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/pull/611/commits/cf88deeed9aecdd12437393517fbb1c6e750dbb1)

Tauri Action has three main usages: test the build pipeline of your Tauri app, upload Tauri artifacts to an existing release, and create a new release with the Tauri artifacts.

> ### How to set up

Reviewer: I feel like this section is a bit lackluster, you defer to the actions documentation, but I feel we need to give a proper introduction to *what the action does and how it fits into a workflow*, *what to do with produced artifacts* etc. but most importantly include code snippets and examples.

Author: > most importantly include code snippets and examples

Fixed with [e79a691](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/pull/611/commits/e79a6919831900a0e73ffc6b6600e1684469e30d) I believe.

### Notes

You may modify the workflow name, change the triggers, add more steps such as npm run lint or npm run test. The important part is that you keep the:

```yaml
- uses: tauri-apps/tauri-action@v0
```

line at the final of the workflow, since this runs the build script and releases the artifacts.

Also note this line next to the end of the workflow:

```yaml
env:
  GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

This GitHub Token is automatically issued by GitHub for each workflow run without further configuration, which means there is no risk of secret leakage. This token however only has read permissions by default and you may get a "Resource not accessible by integration" error when running the workflow, if this happens to fix it you may add read permissions to this token. To do this head over to your Project Settings, and then select Actions, scroll down until "Workflow permissions" and check "Read and write permissions".

### How to trigger

> By default, the testing workflow is triggered on each pull request, but you could also trigger it for every push to the repository on all branches or select branches by changing the start like this:

Reviewer: I think this guide should focus on the release aspect of the action, not the testing one

Author: Should this be moved to another guide, or completelly deferred to tauri-action documentation? I quite like using tauri-action for testing as it requires minimal configuration if you are already going to setup a release workflow so I though it would be nice to have it here. Maybe a new guide could be added on the testing section which explains this.

You could also trigger the workflow on the push of a version tag such as "app-v0.7.0". For this you may change the start of the release workflow:

```yaml
name: publish
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - "app-v*"
  workflow_dispatch:
```

### Caveats

- Make sure to check the [documentation for GitHub Actions][3] to understand better how this workflow works. Take care to read the [Usage limits, billing, and administration][4] documentation for GitHub Actions.
- Some project templates may already implement this GitHub action workflow, such as [tauri-svelte-template][5]
- You can use this Action on a repo that doesn't have Tauri configured. We automatically initialize Tauri before building, and configure it to use your Web artifacts.
  - You can configure Tauri with the `configPath`, `distPath` and `iconPath` options.
- You can run custom Tauri CLI scripts with the `tauriScript` option. So instead of running `yarn tauri build` or `npx tauri build`, we'll execute `${tauriScript}`.
  - Useful when you need custom build functionality when creating Tauri apps e.g. a `desktop:build` script.

> - When your app isn't on the root of the repo, use the `projectPath` input.

Reviewer: This should be given more priority, it's not a caveat, it's a core aspect of the action. Maybe you can add a proper paragraph under the setup heading

Author: I've moved these topics to the "please note" section right at the start on [e583056](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/pull/611/commits/e5830566808676f4777ab27fe18529568c8a373c)

Haven't rewritten it tough yet as I'm not sure how to write it better.
